- [Instructor] You might be wondering,
what is a Spring JMS message converter?
JMS provides for some basic messaging types
like Streams,
Map,
Text,
Object,
and Bytes.
These JMS message types for the most part
form the foundation of all other message types that exist.
For example, a JSON or XML message
could be easily sent as TextMessages.
Images or sound or music files
could be sent as ByteMessages.
Spring provides out of the box, a default conversion
through its SimpleMessageConverter.
The SimpleMessageConverter is able to handle TextMessages,
BytesMessages, MapMessages, and ObjectMessages.
The only base JMS message type that it does not handle
is the StreamMessages.
We've used JmsTemplate.convertAndSend.
The default conversion strategy used with converAndSend
is the SimpleMessageConverter.
This is the case, unless we specify a different converter
in our configuration as a Spring bean.
Spring additionally provides some other
message converters for use.
But, we would have to specify these in the configuration
through an @Bean annotation.
These other messaging converters are:
MappingJackson2MessageConverter, MarshallingMessageConverter
and MessagingMessageConverter.
A MappingJackson2MessageConverter will use Jackson 2.x API
to convert message payloads to and from JSON.
It internally maps objects to ByteMessages or TextMessages,
depending on what the targetType is set.
A MarshallingMessageConverter uses a Marshaller
and an Unmarshaller to marshall objects to ByteMessages
or TextMessages, and again,
it depends on what the targetType is set.
A MessagingMessageConverter converts a JMS message
using an underlying MessageConverter
for payloads and a JmsHeaderMaper to map the JMS headers.
So what if we wanted to create
our own custom message converter?
What would we do, and how would we go about it?
Really, it's jut a matter of implementing
Spring's MessageConverter interface.
The MessageConverter interface has two methods
that we would need to provide implementations for.
They are the toMessage,
which accepts an object to be converted
and a session instance and it returns a message.
The second method of the MessageConverter interface
is the fromMessage,
which takes a message,
accepts a message to be converted,
and returns a Java object.